---
layout: blog_item
title: "Free Online Content and AdBlock"
author: Andrey
headerImage: adblock.jpg
tags: [advertising, adbock]
permalink: "blog/:title"
---

<p>There have been many articles in the news lately about the digital age and consumers being unwilling to pay for content.  The result, publishes say, is that we should be willing to put up with a certain amount of advertising in order to sponsor their work.  In all honesty, I completely agree.  At the same time however, that agreement didn’t prevent me from just installing AdBlock  Plus in Safari during my most recent browser change.</p>

<p>Does that make me a hypocrite?  Perhaps.  The thing is, I’ve actually worked in online advertising in the past and I understand its necessity.  In fact, there have even been times where the ads have been dead on target with me and have shown me things I was genuinely interested in.  These occasions however, are very few and far between.  For the most part, there’s that one (or ten) websites that I visit which ruin advertising opportunities for all the rest.</p>

<p>What do I mean?  Invasive ads.</p>

<p>Back in the early days of the internet, my browsing habits were plagued with websites that insisted on displaying ‘alerts’ whenever I entered or attempted to leave pages.  Things like, “Are you sure you want to do that?  We’re in the process of doing x, y, and z for you!”.  I, like everyone else I know, hated that experience so much that we associate it with malware, viruses, and spam to this day.</p>

<p>What then, pray tell, do advertisers expect us to think when upon entering the website we see a massive banner and a video on our screen telling us that they’ll redirect us to the content we wanted in 5…4…3…2…1…</p>

<p>Basically, I’ll do pretty much anything short of paying you to get rid of this stupid thing.  Why won’t I pay you?  Because with very few exceptions, these websites are 1-time visits for me because of a link I ran across somewhere.  I’m generally not going to be willing to pay, subscribe, or do much of anything else on my first (and likely only) visit to your website - it’s just not worth the (time or money) investment to me.</p>

<p>So, on behalf of all of the websites out there that DON’T use invasive advertising and want to make money off of their ad-supported content: Stop making me want to block all ads for the sake of getting rid of the few truly annoying ones.  Stop putting website-blocking ads on your content.  Stop putting auto-play video ads on your websites.  Make your ads interesting and relevant…and I’ll happily look at them and maybe even click on them.  Until then, all but my favorite websites (which don’t use these tactics), will have all of their advertising blocked.</p>
